# Employment-Recommendation-System
This repository serves as a collection of codes for the project on employment recommendation system in collaboration with Laboratoire Hubert Curien and Inasoft HR Software Solutions. 


E-recruitment is a rapidly emerging domain that mirrors the global shift towards online platforms across various sectors.  In this evolving landscape, as hiring practices become more digital, e-recruitment recommendation systems play a crucial role in streamlining the hiring process by matching job seekers to the most suitable jobs and vice versa.  This project focuses on developing a system to effectively match optimal candidates with suitable job openings.  Our approach tackles a two-fold problem: first, a binary classification task to determine a candidate's suitability for a given vacancy, and second, a ranking problem to present the most relevant candidates to recruiters in a prioritized manner.  To achieve this, we employed Sentence Transformers, utilizing sentence pairs where the first sentence represents the candidate profile and the second describes the job vacancy, subsequently training the model for classification. However, the evaluation results for ranking were rather not up-to-the-mark with sentence transformers, hence it necessitated further literature review to find model architectures more suitable for information retrieval and ranking. Hence, rerankers were explored. The results for ranking with rerankers were significantly better than that with sentence transformers, thereby revealing that cross-encoder architecture is the most effective way to perform ranking. 
